
Ensuring Cambodia has supplies and access to COVID-19 tools.
“As long as the virus continues to circulate anywhere, no country and no one is safe, including in Cambodia,” said Dr. Li. “We must continue to detect, test, isolate and care for patients, and trace and quarantine their contacts—and to do this we must have sufficient diagnostics, PPE, and medical equipment.” Beyond procuring supplies, WHO and the UN system are also strengthening the global supply chain. The COVID-19 Supply Chain System, coordinated by WHO and the World Food Programme, was established to significantly scale up and speed the delivery of essential COVID-19 supplies. As of 13 August, 83 countries, including Cambodia, had submitted 383 requests for supplies with a total estimated value of US $163 million through the COVID-19 Supply Portal. In addition to medical, lab and PPE supplies, fair access to tools such as treatments and vaccines is vital. On 24 April, WHO launched the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, which is a global collaboration to accelerate development, production and equitable access to COVID-19 tests, treatments and vaccines. COVAX Facility, the vaccines pillar of the ACT-Accelerator co-led by WHO, Gavi and CEPI, is speeding up the search for an effective vaccine for all countries. At the same time, it is supporting the building of manufacturing capabilities, and buying supply ahead of time so that 2 billion doses can be?rapidly and equitably distributed by the end of 2021. Vaccines are a global public health good. When a safe and effective vaccine is available, Gavi’s COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC), will be used to pay for the doses allocated to developing countries. Cambodia is eligible to receive COVAX AMC support. In addition to accelerating research and ensuring manufacturing capacity for COVID-19 vaccines, WHO has supported the Royal Government of Cambodia to strengthen its regulatory capacity, draft a COVID-19 National Deployment and Vaccination Plan (NDVP) and assess immunization supply chain management. This planning will be essential to get a successful COVID-19 vaccine to priority groups in an equitable and effective manner. WHO and partners continue to work with suppliers to secure commitments for supplies needed for COVID-19 prevention, preparedness and response. This work is crucial in order to minimize the risk of COVID-19 infection and protect public health in Cambodia.