New Zealand takes early and hard action to tackle COVID-19.

Three days after WHO declared the coronavirus outbreak a public health emergency of international concern on 30 January 2020, New Zealand began introducing disease prevention measures and continued strengthening them in the weeks that followed. He says their strategy was influenced by a report from the WHO–China joint mission in February. “This report, including the observation that, ‘the key learning from China is speed – it’s all about the speed. The faster you can find the cases, isolate the cases, and track their close contacts, the more successful you’re going to be,’ helped influence New Zealand’s strategy to ‘go early and go hard’,” says Dr Bloomfield. Observing the spiralling epidemic and its devastating impacts in Europe, he says the Government was “determined to minimize the impact of COVID-19” in New Zealand. From late February through March, the country progressively tightened restrictions. “It was recognized that implementing this strategy would have significant economic costs, but so would a major outbreak,” he explains. “So New Zealand took a precautionary approach and on 26 March, apart from essential workers, the entire country was required to self-quarantine at home.” WHO Regional Director for the Western Pacific, Dr Takeshi Kasai, explains that New Zealand combined strict physical distancing with strong testing, contact tracing, clinical management of those infected, and clear and regular public communication. The country also took steps to cushion the economic blow. “New Zealand certainly benefited from being a high-income, island country with an advanced health system," says Dr Kasai. "But they didn’t take anything for granted,” he adds. “They worked concertedly to limit and stop COVID-19 on their shores and support other countries in the Region. ”The Government of New Zealand called on the entire population to unite as a “team of 5 million” to protect their families, friends and neighbours. Concerned that COVID-19 could be transmitted through New Zealand to Pacific island countries – which are some of the only places still free of COVID-19 – the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade worked closely with WHO to support their neighbours in the Pacific. This included procuring supplies and providing training to health staff within those countries and via remote support. The Government of New Zealand called on the entire population to unite as a “team of 5 million” to protect their families, friends and neighbours. Concerned that COVID-19 could be transmitted through New Zealand to Pacific island countries – which are some of the only places still free of COVID-19 – the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade worked closely with WHO to support their neighbours in the Pacific. This included procuring supplies and providing training to health staff within those countries and via remote support.